Welcome back to Digital
Forensic Concepts.
In this course, we're talking
about report writing
and peer review.
In Module 2, we're going to
cover tool-generated reports,
reports generated by
our forensic software.
Each forensic tool reports
slightly different.
There's going to be
slightly different options,
slightly different ways in
which it displays our findings.
Most of these tool-generated
reports are very technical,
so know your audience
if you're going to use
one of these reports.
Most of these reports
do contain a lot
of unneeded and
unwanted information,
as we'll see when we
do our walk through.
I want to talk about
two software suites
that do reporting.
Almost any of your software
suites we'll do reporting.
That includes FTK, EnCase, Axiom.
But the two we're going
to look at are X-Ways,
which is a commercial suite,
it does cost money,
and Autopsy, which is a
free and open source tool.
When we take a look at the
Report Wizard in X-Ways,
as we see here up on our screen,
we have the options
to put in a logo.
We can put in a report header.
We can even put in a preface like
a paragraph,
prefacing our report.
We can include our search hits.
We can choose selected
evidence objects
that we want to report from.
We could convert our
report to a PDF.
Now up top here it says
Include report tables.
Now X-Ways calls report
tables bookmarks,
they're the same thing.
Most tools call these bookmarks,
but in X-ways they call
them report tables.
You can see we have some
different ones here,
we have Jump lists, Link files,
Event logs, Prefetch files.
You can choose to include all
of these or some of them.
You can sort them by
the evidence ID number,
which is an eternal number
given by the software.
We can have them in the order
they are currently in the case.
You can decide how many lines you
want per row in your output file.
We can also copy a link
to each one of these.
This is an HTML type report
we're generating here.
We would have a link to
each of these items,
which we could click on and
see the actual evidence item.
You can create thumbnails.
You could have them
positioned above
the row or below the row
that displays your artifact.
Further down here, at the bottom,
on the right-hand side,
we see a whole bunch of Name,
Type, Description, Report,
Table path, Full path.
You can choose to include any of
these type of
metadata information.
This also includes your dates
and times you can see here.
You can't see them in this
particular photograph,
but they are listed as
one of the options.
You have a whole bunch
of ways that you can
customize your report here
with the X-Ways forensic tool.
Now, Autopsy, the first
screen you're going to come
to in your Report Wizard,
you're going to choose what type
of output you're
doing, your reporting.
You can do it HTML,
Excel, a regular text file,
you can even do a
Google Earth KML
if that's the type
of case you have.
You can do a portable case
to an Autopsy and
allows you to do
a portable case that
you could turn over to
another examiner,
possible peer review.
You can create a header,
in this type I've
written case report,
and a footer, now I
just put end of report.
But you can type anything
you want in these boxes.
Now as you go through
the Report Wizard,
you're going to have the
example to include All Results,
All Tagged Results or
Specific Tag Results.
You can see down here in the
white box on the screen,
I can choose to
include my bookmarks,
my notable items or my Prefetch.
There are different types of
bookmarks I've created here.
If I chose All Results,
I'd be presented with a
Window where I'd be able
to include or exclude
certain types of results.
I can have Web Bookmarks,
Web Cache, Web
Cookies, downloads,
but I could also
deselect these if they
weren't relevant to my case.
Now we're going to do a demo
with Autopsy and X-Ways.
I'm going to take a look at
the reports that they
generate and how they
look and the types of information
that they will contain.
Welcome to our tool-generated
report demonstration.
We're going to start with X-Ways,
which is a paid commercial tool.
I have a case created
and opened here.
I'm going to go to
File, Create Report.
We see that report generator,
like we saw a screenshot
of in our PowerPoint
presentation.
I do have an option
to put in a logo.
This is the optional
report header,
and it's just simply
case report X-Ways.
I could change that, and I have.
I can put it on the left,
the center or the right.
I can output an activity log.
I can do it in selected
evidence items,
which I could put it
in a single partition
or something outside my
partition boundaries.
I'm not going to do that.
Up here we see all
the report tables.
Report tables are what
X-Ways calls bookmarks.
Most tools call them
bookmarks or tags.
In X-Ways they call
them report tables.
I have the Firefox
browser, Jump list,
Link files, Event logs,
Prefetch, Chrome.
That seems to be all I have here.
I can include these
simply by highlighting,
holding down my control key.
I could pick as many as I want.
I'm just going to go
ahead and pick them all.
I also have the options of
choosing how the output looks.
I can do three lines per file,
I can do page breaks,
list each evidence
file only once,
and I can make copies of
the files so they can be
included in the report.
This is an HTML output.
I do have the option
of converting
it to a PDF output if I want to.
I can create thumbnails
for each of the files.
Now, what metadata
information do I want?
Well, I definitely
want name, type,
report table, path, extension,
and you can see this list
is fairly extensive.
We have it created,
modified, record
change, and accessed.
I could see if it's deleted.
I can include the hash values.
There's all types of information,
I can pick or choose down here.
I can generate a file signature.
There's all different
types of things I can do.
We're just going
to keep it fairly
simple so it doesn't look
overwhelming when it comes out.
But if some of these
specific characteristics
were important to you,
you'd want to make sure
you included them.
I also have the
option of outputting
my metadata like it
shows in details mode.
I'm not going to do
that because that
would take up a lot of space.
When I'm done, I simply
can click "Okay".
Now I have to choose
where I want to save it.
I'm just going to leave
it on the default
here and click "Save".
Now, it's going to say
it's successfully saved,
and now I can click "Okay",
and I can view the report.
This is what the
report looks like.
The first part is just giving me
some geometry of the drive,
the total capacity,
bytes per sector,
the sector count, what
the partition style is,
master boot record,
file-system and DFS.
It gives that for
all the partitions.
It gives you more informations
about each partition.
Bytes per sector,
bytes per cluster,
location of free clusters,
total free clusters.
Just drives geometry
information for the partitions.
Now, we come to our items.
We chose our Firefox bookmarks
and just list them out.
The name of the file,
the type of the file,
cookies.sqllite file type.
The report table I have an n
is called Firefox browsers,
that's name of the bookmark.
It gives you the path.
It is existing, which
means it's not deleted.
Then my created modified record
chains and access times.
It just lists all
those files out.
Jump lists, give me the name of
the jump list and the
same type of information.
Whatever type of information
you choose to put in here,
make sure you can explain
it and you understand it.
If you don't, don't
put it in the report.
This is nothing more
embarrassing than
somebody asking about
something that's
in your report and you
cannot explain it.
That would make you look bad.
This is what a report
would look like.
It's not really pretty,
I don't really think
it's that user-friendly,
but that is what the x-rays
tool generator report
does look like.
Now, let's take a
look at autopsy.
I've created a case in autopsy,
and we're going to go ahead
and generate a report.
I'm going to go to
tools, generate report.
With that autopsy,
we have a choice of
what type of report
we want to generate.
Do we want to generate an XML,
an HTML, a plain text?
A TSK body file,
a Google Earth KML,
if you're doing
something that maps,
you might want to do that KML
or even the portable case.
I can put a header in here,
and I'm just going to put
a header case for class.
In the footer, I'm just going
to put end. We're an end.
We're going to next
through the Report Wizard.
Now, it's asking me which
source I'm reporting on.
I only have one
evidence item in here,
which is the, I have a VMDK.
If I hadn't more than one,
I could choose which one or both.
We have that all results.
I could go all tagged results
or specific tagged results.
Here's where I can pick
and choose which items I
want to include or not
include in the report.
I'm going to go to all results.
Then I can click down here.
If I want to choose result types,
I can choose to include all of
these or to take
some of them out.
But I'm just going to
leave it the way it
is and we're going
to click "Finish".
It's going to take a minute
to generate this report.
It's showing you the
file path to the report.
You might want to make note
of that so you know where to
find the report once
it's generated.
It's finished and we
can see our report.
Now we do have over here on
the left-hand side
a navigation pane,
you can click on "Case Summary"
and that's what we're at,
the beginning of the report.
It's telling us the version
of autopsy that we're using,
just 4.17.0 and it's giving
us our software information.
These are all the modules
that are installed in
this version of autopsy
that I have installed.
It also gives you a history of
what options I ran
and whether I let them
finish or I canceled them.
You have complete
documentation of
the processes you ran on
your data source in
your case summary
which comes in handy.
Take a look at the accounts.
These are the accounts that
are found on the system.
Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge,
which is the app name,
and then the URL,
when they were created,
the domain, the username,
and where the source file
is inside the image itself,
how you would navigate
to it to look at
the file and you
can scroll through when you
can see account emails.
It found all these
different email addresses,
email messages.
To detect some encryption,
suspected files
that are encrypted.
These files may or may not be
suspected encryption
and it's measuring
entropy and we'll talk about
that in another
path, what that is.
It does show us
extension mismatch
and this is where the
file extension does
not match the actual file type
because it's very easy to change
a file extension and a filename.
If I had a PDF,
I could change it to a.gpg
file just simply by renaming it.
That would prevent the
operating system from accessing
the file but I would
still know it was there.
That is a simple way
of trying to hide
data but fairly easily
overcome as you see,
it detects every mismatch
and then there's
241 extension mismatches
in this image file.
Hash hits: This was
a notable hash,
this is a packers and this is
a packing type program and you
could scroll through here.
It has interesting
files, keyword hits.
When we did our
keyword searching,
when we looked at grep
and keyword searches
in our last course,
then we can see all
our keyword hits.
Recent documents, tagged files.
That link is not working.
It's showing us
all our tag files.
I didn't tag any images.
I tagged one result,
it was a web history.
You can just get the idea.
You can scroll through
here and look at each of
these items inside the
report and see them.
I do like the way and down at
the bottom there's a
scroll bar and scroll
across because it's not
going to fit on one screen.
Then we have our dates and times.
We have a program in our domain.
Let's look at tag
files from in here.
These are files, these are PDFs.
These a couple of them are SQL
writes and we do have
a link file in here,
but we'll scroll across.
You can see you have your
created access modified times,
we have the username,
and we have our hash value
and the file size in bytes.
Now this particular program
doesn't let me pick and choose
what information I want but
it does put it out
in a very nice,
easy navigate through format.
That is a look at
tool-generated reports just
for a couple of tools.
Like I said, all of
your full forensic suites
will generate a report.
End of demonstration.